# The `backend` Directory

## Overview

The `backend/` directory contains Javascript source code for NodeJS back-end server.

## Folder Structure
```
backend/
  |- utils/
  |- views/
  |- middlewares/
      |- passportConfig.js
      |- passportOpenIdConfig.js
      |- sessionManager.js
  |- routes.js
  |- server.js
  |- sample.env
  |- package.json
  |- package-lock.json
  |- README.md
```

- `backend/utils/` - Utility functions that are used widely across features.
- `backend/views/` - Contains static views/page file for rendering login, layout etc.
- `backend/middlewares` - Contains all middleware which will help to authenticate the user and session management of application.
- `backend/middlewares/passportConfig.js` - contains the configuration for Passport.js and setting up authentication strategy to handle user authentication by using JwtStrategy.
- `backend/middlewares/passportOpenIdConfig.js` - contains the configuration for Passport.js to use OpenID Connect for authentication, setting up the OIDC strategy, and user serialization/deserialization methods to facilitate secure user login.
- `backend/middlewares/sessionManager.js` - contains logic to manage user sessions in the web application. 
- `backend/server.js` - It sets up and starts the Express server, integrating middleware, routes, and Passport.js for handling authentication, serving the application, and managing API endpoints.
- `backend/routes.js` - It defines all the application routes, organizing the routing logic for various api endpoints, including protected routes that require authentication.
- `backend/sample.env` - stores the environment variables configuration which needs to be updated in the .env file before running the project 
- `backend/package.json` - stores metadata about the backend and is used to manage the backend's dependencies, scripts, and configurations. It needs to be kept up-to-date to ensure the backend runs correctly.
- `backend/package-lock.json` - This file is automatically generated by npm when dependencies are installed in the backend. It ensures that the exact same dependencies are installed across all environments by locking the specific versions of installed packages.
- `backend/package-lock.json` - This file provides an overview of the backend, including how to set up, run, and contribute to the project. 